Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Terrence, what the
hell are you doing?
I told you
aluminum is a waste.
Look how big this is.
That's barely 15 bucks
worth of metal.
If you want to make
money scrapping,
stick with stainless steel,
copper or brass.
You know what those are,
don't you?
Screw you.
Keep it down!
Last thing we need are cops.
Hey, I think I found something
in this pile of crap.
I'm telling you,
the good stuff
is buried in the walls--
the copper wiring,
the plumbing.
This might not be a wall,
but it's definitely buried.
Dude, it's shining.
It might be gold.
I got more gold in my teeth.
It's a bracelet,
but it's stuck.
It's definitely gold.
Smells a little funky
from the arm, though.
No.
I've already made my decision.
Absolutely not.
I refuse to pander to the
lowest common denominator,
particularly one
which relies solely
on minimal
imbecilic thought.
But thank you so much
for your call.
Telemarketer?
No.
My publisher.
She wants me to start
a Twitter account to help
promote my book sales.
Can you believe it?
Actually, you know what?
Yes, I can.
You got a lot of fans.
It's a good way to, uh,
you know, connect with them.
I do connect through my books.
Yeah, but that take years
for you to write them.
I mean, this gives fans
a chance to connect with you
till the next one comes out.
Well, how do I say
anything of substance
in 140 characters or less?
Well, I don't think
tweets are meant to be profound
or anything like that,
except if they're Flyers updates.
That's life or death. Booth.
Oh, wow. Okay.
There was a body found in a
bookstore in Southeast D.C.
Bookstores, unlike Twitter,
are the hubs of true,
complex critical thought.
It's abandoned.
Well, that doesn't help my argument.
Sorry.
Buried in a pile of books
from the self-help section.
Ooh.
Definitely not the way I'd want to go out.
I find this
quite tragic.
Well, death is a tragedy.
No, I'm not talking
about the victim.
I'm referring
to the fact
that this is what's left of a bookstore.
Oh, I know.
I used to spend hours
in places like this,
thumbing through page
after page,
looking for the perfect read.
And that fresh new book smell.
Oh, man, an e-book
just does not have it.
Yeah, 'cause who doesn't like
huffing a good book.
Ah, I suppose
you all want to go back
to riding a horse to work.
Okay, let's move it on here.
So, what do we have?
Ripped fingernails suggest
there was likely a struggle.
The oval shape
of the pelvic inlet
indicates the victim
was a female.
- Sexual assault?
- Impossible to tell
till we get back to the lab.
Based on the cranial suturing,
the victim appears to have been
in her early 20s.
The projection of the nasal
bones suggests Caucasian.
Okay, everyone
take a step back.
- Why? What did you find there?
- Uh, uh, yeah.
Bug Boy-- he
rarely warns us,
so, I would, you know,
listen to what he's saying.
It's frightening, yes,
but also, a little bit awesome.
Are you gonna
tell us any information, Dr.
Hodgins, or merely adjectives?
Oh, this webbing
is from a  Loxosceles reclusa,
otherwise known
- as a brown recluse spider.
- Oh.
Right. Yeah, I'm not a big fan
of spiders, so, why don't
we just, you know, wrap that up
there so we can get out of here?
Awesome part is,
based on the eggs and
the webbing, the victim died
about seven days ago.
- And the frightening part?
- Well, they can be quite deadly.
I've seen a brown recluse bite
which caused necrosis
down to the bone.
Who cares about that?
Just put the spider
in the container,
seal it up so we don't get
neocro, whatever, all over us.
Necrosis, and it wouldn't
be on us,
it would be in us
because, it's...
Yeah, I'm with Agent Booth
on this one.
Should we get a, uh,
bug bomb or whatever?
No. No.
The spider
is evidence.
Okay, there
he is.
Okay, got it. I got it.
Oh!
Oh, my.
Think that's the only one.
Just, uh, pack up the victim
and head back to the lab.
The techs can sweep
for anything else.
Oh, my God.
Whoa, whoa. What?
You get bit?
No, it's my book.
It was in the clearance section.
♪ Bones 10x12 ♪
The Teacher in the Books
Original Air Date on April 2, 2015
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
♪  ♪
Until the bones
are clean, it's going
to be impossible to separate all
the peri and postmortem damage.
Don't think the flesh is going
to help
your facial reconstruction.
So far, all I've got are
six freckles and a mole.
Ooh.
That's very useful, actually.
I created this
new algorithm that
maps the location of moles
and freckles and other
distinctive facial
markers, and
cross-references them with
the Missing Persons Database.
Oh. Like
constellation mapping,
but of the face. That's awesome.
Yeah. If this mole
can be our Polaris, then,
we should be able
to navigate our way to an ID.
Oh.
Ms. Warren,
I warned you.
On the platform,
our cell phones are turned off.
- Whoa! Supposition much? I'm innocent.
- That was my phone.
Actually, I just sent out
my first tweet.
Oh, uh, sorry.
You're on Twitter?
- That doesn't seem like you.
- Booth and my publisher
both felt that it would help
nurture my fan base,
and I hope to gain
anthropological insight
into online
sociological behavior
and how it's destroying
interpersonal relationships.
Well, I'm totally
gonna follow you.
Uh...
Sweetie, was
your first tweet
a link to an article about
"Victim Identification
and the Challenge of
Morphoscopic Traits"?
It was.
Uh, Dr. Brennan,
you have to be pithy.
A 200-page article--
not pithy, no pith in that.
This is fun, but we
have a murder to solve
that requires more
than 140 characters.
Ooh, great.
I have an ID.
The victim is Mia Ferrara,
age 22, reported missing
by her boyfriend
last Sunday.
I got that bracelet
to celebrate Mia getting into
the United Teaching Fellows.
College graduates
who teach
in underperforming
school districts.
Sort of the, uh, Peace
Corps of my generation.
So Mia spent a lot of time
in rough neighborhoods?
She didn't care.
She just saw it as a chance
to help the kids.
Uh, we have evidence
suggesting that
Mia died a week ago.
Do you remember
seeing her last Friday?
For breakfast,
but, uh, and I had to go
on a coffeehouse tour
in Virginia for the weekend.
- Yeah.
- I'm a musician.
Oh. Musician. Right.
You never tried to call
her over the weekend?
Sure, but she didn't answer.
Sometimes she got mad
when I went on tour.
And when I came home,
and realized
she hadn't been
in the apartment all weekend...
...that's when
I called the police.
Pretty nice digs for
a teacher and a musician.
Mia has a trust fund.
Oh.
Looks like you'll be moving now.
This is gonna
sound weird now, but...
- she put the place in both our names.
- Yeah.
That does sound a little weird.
Look, whatever you need,
just ask.
I want to find out who did this
to Mia more than you do.
Caroline, what's up?
I was just leaving.
I caught wind of this
teacher case, Cher.
I need you to be extra
careful with this one.
Come on. I'm always careful.
It's not like you
to question that.
I'm sorry, Cher, but
I just happen to be
on the board
of the United Teaching Fellows.
These people--
they do God's work
for inner-city communities.
If word gets out
that it's too dangerous,
the whole program could suffer.
No, the kids
that it could help-- well, that
just makes me mad, all right?
I'm not gonna let one psycho
ruin all that.
See, this is why I get all tingly
when I see you, Seeley Booth.
I spoke with the principal
of the school
to make sure
they knew you were coming.
This is her name
and the name
of the other UTF teacher
the victim worked with.
All right, thanks.
I grew up with nothing, Cher.
No one should have
to fight like I did
just to get a decent education.
All right.
Look how you turned out, huh?
Don't worry about it.
I got all this.
I trust you.
Don't worry.
I already had
two reporters calling
with questions about how
dangerous the school is.
Sometimes I think they love
scaring the crap out of people.
Good news is, I'm not seeing
anything about it online yet.
But I did start following
Dr. B on Twitter.
Hey, that's good, huh?
Tell your friends.
You have friends, right?
That's funny.
So I heard that the, uh, Andy
Lister character in her books--
he's, uh... he's based on you.
That is right, you heard
correct, my friend.
So, why didn't he have sex
with Dr. Reichs
until the third novel?
I mean, you know, what kind
of real man waits that long?
What are you
talking about, huh?
Look, their situation
was complicated.
Sometimes relationships
take a while to develop.
James Bond wouldn't have waited
till the third book.
That's all I'm saying.
People are already
tweeting about it.
Yeah, but in book three,
you got to admit,
it's, uh, pretty
impressive.
You should tweet that.
I guess. I just read the books
for the gore mostly.
Then why'd you
bring it up?
Way to pass the time.
Mm, okay, keep tweeting there.
The latest data shows
that the U.S. is 14th
in public education.
But we beat Slovakia,
so that's something.
Now there's something
you don't see every day.
Guys, come on.
Come on,
put the car down.
Look, please.
I'm not kidding around.
I don't want to get
anybody in trouble
if I don't have to.
Yeah. Go! Go!
What you got?
Oh, hey.
You must be the gentlemen
from the FBI.
FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth.
This here's Agent Aubrey.
Shane Gentry.
I was told
you guys would be coming.
Welcome to South Grant High School.
Great. Thank you.
Do you want us to help
you out with that?
Oh, no.
No. They usually leave it
on the front lawn.
I like to think
this is how we bond.
A handful of the kids
are actually
in my ninth
grade class.
Right, 'cause what better way
to bond
than by encouraging
illegal activity?
Oh, better pranks than gangs.
I'd believe you
if we weren't here
about Mia Ferrara's murder.
Don't assume
these kids are killers
just because they're poor.
It becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Right. So, did they
mess with her, too?
Mia?
No. No one messed with Mia.
You show us where she taught?
Yeah.
Agent Booth, Agent Aubrey, this
is our principal, Anne Franklin.
I spoke to Caroline
on the phone.
She's a friend.
This is just horrible.
We're all devastated.
We need to know
if Mia had any trouble
with anybody here at the school.
And not just parents.
Faculty, students.
No.
And if she had, I'd make sure
it never happened again.
- Was anyone fired to make room for her?
- No.
UTF teachers don't take away
any faculty positions.
We're supplemental.
And the other faculty members
are overworked
and underpaid, so people like
Mia and Shane are a godsend.
Since they've come, test scores
have been up across the board.
Mia was up 23%, Shane over 40.
Do either of
you remember seeing Mia
Friday afternoon around 4:00?
It was a
district testing day
for our ninth graders.
I had to oversee it all.
And I didn't see her.
I was collating
the exams my class took.
Cigarettes, gum.
I'm sure she confiscated those
from students.
Who's "M.M."?
Probably Marcellus Miller.
He's in her class.
One of her stars.
Nobody thought that
he had it in him except for Mia.
He was an example to her class.
"187, bitch."
That's police code
for homicide.
Wouldn't want that example.
So, Keith, uh, let me
get this straight.
You are Marcellus's
legal guardian, correct?
Yeah, that's right.
So don't try no tricks.
My brother's a good kid,
you hear?
Marcellus, my name
is Caroline Julian.
I'm with
the Justice Department.
We need to ask you
some questions
about your teacher,
Mia Ferrara.
She's dead, isn't she?
- Yes.
- Wait, wait.
I see where y'all
going with this.
Why y'all after Cellus?
Why? Because, uh, no other
kid wrote death threats
to their teacher.
That was
just a joke, all right?
But not to her,
to some other guy in class.
Me and Miss Ferrara,
we were cool.
Right, and you weren't causing
any trouble in her class?
At first, yeah.
That's... that's because
I got frustrated.
You know, I felt dumb.
And my brother ain't dumb.
Like I told her in that
little conference thing,
ain't no bitch gonna make...
You don't use language
like that in here,
you understand me?
He's just
trying to look out for me.
Listen, just been us
for three years now.
He doesn't mean anything by it.
Right. So it must've
made you angry
if your teacher
made you feel stupid.
She was just trying to help me.
She tutored me if I asked.
She said that if
I kept improving,
she'd help me get into college.
I ain't never had
no teacher like that, man.
And ain't no teacher
at that school
- ever helped me get into college.
- Maybe because
when you went to that school,
you used to bring weapons.
The school
make you do that?
Are you gonna blame
every screw up
on other people, Keith?
Cellus, go on.
Tell them what they need
so we can get out of here.
So where were you last Friday
after school?
I went to see Miss Ferrara.
To get some extra help.
She said no, and that's
the first time that happened,
so I just went home.
And that was
the last time you saw her?
Yeah. Then she told me
that she'd make it up to me.
She'd give me
some extra time on Monday.
She was the only teacher
who ever thought
that I could do better.
Yeah.
So the victim's shoes
and clothes have
polyethylene and polystyrene
particulates on them.
Styrene?
Like Styrofoam?
Yes, Styrofoam and plastic.
Now, I also found traces
of the following:
potassium bromate,
sodium nitrate,
benzoic acid,
methocyclopropene--
basically all the compounds
that preserve
that delicious cafeteria food.
So at some point she was
stuffed in, what, a garbage can?
Well, it seems like it.
Now, check this out.
I was also able to pull
some flesh from
the inside of her shoe.
Oh, the purplish-red
color suggests
there was lividity
in her ankles.
So her blood
had pooled in her feet?
Yeah, during hypostasis.
Which means that after
the victim was killed,
she was kept in a
standing position for
about four to
eight hours.
My guess is she was stored
in a semi-public place.
Why public?
Well, I ran an analysis of the
substance she was doused in.
So it was ethanol,
isopropol,
chloro-obenzylphenol,
potassium hydroxide cocktail.
Disinfectant.
Yep.
So the killer was trying to mask
the smell of the body.
So the body must've been
near a semi-public place.
And in something tall enough
to keep it standing upright.
Why couldn't all these tests
just give us
the name and address
of the killer?
Yeah.
Criminal records of everyone
in or tied to the school--
students, teachers,
parents, staff...
Yeah, no, we
already have them.
You really don't trust us to
get this one done, do you?
Just trying to help, Cher.
Marcellus said
the victim seemed to be
mad about something.
Well, I checked
her credit card records,
bus pass, phone.
Nothing was used after
4:00 that afternoon.
I don't think she
ever left the campus.
So she was killed
at the school.
Just what I was
praying to avoid.
You know, just because one
person there is guilty
doesn't mean that they'll
think everyone is.
You really believe in that,
don't you?
Sweet.
Stupid, but sweet.
So Aubrey is checking
out the other kids
and the employees
at the school.
I mean, even the kids, you know,
with juvie records have alibis.
Except for Keith
and Marcellus.
It must be very difficult for
them taking care of themselves.
Keith's only 19; his frontal
lobe isn't fully developed,
so his judgment
isn't yet reliable.
Unfortunately,
that's not a defense.
You know,
I don't get it.
You know, when I went to school,
it was a safe place. Safe.
Some sociologists say
it's income inequality,
some say it's the welfare state,
some blame the decline
of the family,
lower standards.
I didn't really
want an answer.
Oh, that's fortunate, because I
don't think there really is one.
Right.
Mm.
Oh, I am proud to say I'm now
up to ten Twitter followers.
Ten followers--
that is really bad.
It's probably just the squints
that are following you.
You know, you need hundreds,
thousands of followers.
Well, I'm twittering
fascinating articles
I think people would like.
Oh, right, yeah.
Fascinating.
You know, I looked up
your Twitter account;
you were posting articles
on bone disease in cavemen.
Miocene hominids, not cavemen.
Sorry. Well, now
that's exciting.
You know what,
you should ask
that new squint
girl in your lab.
She looks like the tweety type.
I'm fine.
No. You want to be
the best, right?
How can you be the best
with ten followers?
You should ask her.
What, you got another
caveman following you?
There are avulsion fractures
to the right and left
humeral heads.
Okay, is there something
in that that I can use?
Not yet, but I should
get back to the lab.
Sure. A quick lunch together
is better than none, right?
Ten is pretty pathetic.
It's better than nothing.
The greenstick and hairline
postmortem fractures
to the ribs and
scapula appear to show
that the victim was confined
to a very small space.
And based on Cam's
assessment of lividity,
she was confined
in a vertical position.
So there must be other
corresponding injuries.
Ms. Warren, I only have
ten Twitter followers.
Which is dismaying.
Yeah, I can imagine.
I'm used to dominating
any field I'm in,
so I need your help.
Hmm. So now
I'm the mentor.
Okay.
First off, please stop
labeling your tweets
"tweet 1,"
"tweet 2," "tweet 3."
Well, it's an
organizational strategy.
Also no
polysyllabic words.
Keep it casual.
I can't change the title
of scholarly articles.
Yeah, the articles.
I can't even
start with that.
Um, you want to connect with
people on a personal level.
Here, take out
your phone.
Oh.
All right.
Well, you can't take
a photo of evidence;
it compromises
an ongoing investigation.
I'm not, I'm not.
Look happy to be you.
Although our facial
expressions are a bit peculiar,
I have to admit it's amusing.
The art of the selfie.
Okay. "Solving crimes
and taking names.
#WhatDidYouDoToday."
Did you just post that
to my account?
Yep, and I
retweeted you.
Prepare to become a
Twitter sensation.
All right. So I don't know
if these are related,
but I also noticed
these postmortem
moustache-shaped fracture
lines on the parietal.
I know what it is.
It's a standard two-pronged hook
inside of a high school locker.
The victim's head
was shoved against it.
Wait, how did
you know that?
Because in high school,
I was shoved in a locker
multiple times.
This also explains
the victim's shoulder injuries.
Before I tell Booth about this,
do you really think
your strategy of
photographing ourselves...
Taking a selfie.
And yes, I do.
Check your phone.
Ah, I have 98 followers!
Now it's up to 103!
Too bad it would
jeopardize the case,
or I'd selfie
with the skull.
It is a noun, Dr. Brennan,
not a verb.
Right. I'll tell Booth
about the locker.
Oh! 105!
Seek. Seek.
I took a selfie with a
skeleton in my office.
I put its arm
around me.
"#WhimsicallyAmusing."
Right.
You're gonna have to
work on those hashtags.
Oh.
This is
a terrible loss.
Good teachers are rare.
Mia meant a lot to her students.
We're gonna find out
what happened to her.
Good boy, good boy!
You smell something?
We got a hit here.
Looks like we got a hit.
You smell something?
Can you open up this locker?
All right, come on, come on.
This locker is
currently... unassigned.
There's blood smears
all over the inside.
Size of the locker
corresponds
with her postmortem
injuries.
She was placed in here until
the killer was able to move her.
This hallway was
closed because the floors
were going to be waxed
later that night.
Whoa, what's going on over here?
Whoa! Stay back!
Right there.
FBI, okay?
You're not
going anywhere.
Me and my deputy dog here
have a few questions for you.
All right.
Let's take a look
at your record here, shall we?
First of all, we know
that you lied about your name
when you applied for a job
at the school.
You are Steven Brady,
not Paul Garnett.
Then there's
the possession charge,
possession with intent, assault,
assaulting an officer--
that's never a favorite
around here.
Fine. I admit it.
But it ain't easy
getting a job.
I figured
I'm living a good life now;
who needs to know my past?
Good life?
Man's best friend smelled
eau de dead body on you,
and you started to run.
I was worried the dog was
gonna smell drugs on me.
Well, that's a great excuse,
but you weren't carrying, Paul.
On my hands,
my clothes.
Miss Ferrara and me,
we'd catch kids doing drugs
in the parking lot.
But rather than report 'em,
she'd make 'em do chores
and stuff,
you know, give
'em another chance
so they didn't
get a record.
I wish someone had done that for me.
Okay.
But how do you explain the blood
that we found
on your custodial cart?
What are you talking about?
Mia was moved
from the locker
using your cart.
We have evidence on the body
and in the cart.
Anybody could've taken my cart.
It's not like it's locked up.
Look,
Miss Ferrara gave this to me.
For my birthday.
She said I helped her
understand the kids.
Now, why would I hurt
someone like that,
someone who believed in me?
Ms. Warren,
do you have any updates?
Yes. You are up
to 1,023 followers.
Oh.
With your status
as a public figure
and my Twitter expertise,
I think you could build
an online empire.
Well, I was actually referring
to updates on the case.
But I find your Twitter news
#StrangelyExhilarating.
Nice one.
I also found
subtle fracturing
to the sixth cervical vertebra.
I agree.
Interesting that the injury
is specific to the laminas.
The connection between the body
and the spinous process.
Yes. Do you see
how both the anterior
and posterior sections
of the laminas display breaks?
So a strong force compressed
the sides of the neural arch?
Well, I would say
that it was strangulation,
but the hyoid is still intact.
When the victim is strangled
putting pressure on the
lower cervical vertebrae,
the hyoid usually
does not fracture.
Awesome. So we finally have
cause of death.
Celebratory selfie?
Okay.
#YouCanRunButYouCannotHide.
Oh, for the love of God,
not you, too.
What did I do?
And don't sneak up on me.
Why are you tweeting
and not working my case?
I  am working  our case.
And I know
that the victim had
a Twitter account.
And?
She didn't tweet that much.
Now I like her even more.
Most of the people
she followed were her students.
She used social media
as a way to keep up with them.
Because she wasn't a dinosaur.
It turns out
Marcellus was right
about how upset she was
the afternoon she died.
This was her last tweet.
"Sucks
to be so wrong
about someone. #Heartbroken."
Think she was talking
about one of her students?
No idea.
Angela's going through Mia's
computer now. Maybe she'll find
something that will tell us
who Mia was talking about.
#YouOweMeAnApology.
In your dreams,
Hashtag.
So what did you find
on the victim's computer?
Well, 90% of what was
on her home computer
was dedicated to
her schoolwork,
mostly tracking
her students' progress.
She used these spreadsheets
and metrics.
Wow, she was
truly dedicated.
Yeah, she was
almost obsessed.
And after looking
at these e-mails,
it was clear that she was
losing touch with old friends
and even cancelling plans
with her boyfriend.
Well, being a good teacher can
really take up a lot of time.
Their day doesn't end
when school lets out.
Another interesting
thing though,
her browser history was cleared
at almost the same time
every day.
Was she trying
to hide something?
No, not her.
It was happening
when she was at work.
It was her boyfriend,
and he was covering
his tracks.
I used this forensic
cloning program
to retrieve
the browser history.
He was cheating
on her.
Yeah. With multiple women.
And what's worse is I found
an e-mail to Hunter's account
saying that his coffeehouse tour
was canceled.
So, he was in town
when she was killed.
Yep.
You lied to us, Hunter.
Your little coffeehouse tour was canceled.
I can explain.
You were also spotted at the
school the day Mia was killed.
Yeah, but I didn't kill her.
I was trying to find her.
Not too hard,
'cause you didn't report
her missing for two days.
Look, I know this looks bad,
but I thought she was avoiding
me because she was pissed.
Pissed because of this.
Your DC Hook Up profile.
There is no way you're six-one,
by the way.
You didn't want Mia messing
with your, uh, social life.
I didn't kill her. You know what I think
happened? I think you went
to the school,
and Mia confronted you
about the philandering
you've been doing.
Philandering?
It's a word.
You two started to fight...
I swear I didn't.
Things got out
of control,
you snapped,
and you strangled her.
Look, I
couldn't have.
I was with another girl at a bar.
Mm-hmm.
Right.
When Mia ditched me
and my gig
got canceled,
I needed a hookup.
Can anybody from the bar
verify your story?
Yeah.
The girl.
I got her number.
Ask her.
You have reached
the Get Lost Hotline.
Unfortunately, the person
who gave you this number
didn't want to hear from you
ever again.
We know this sucks.
Wait...
That is not a good alibi,
Hunter.
Have you found anything
pertinent to the case?
I found a remodeled incision
wound to the proximal phalanges
two through five
on the right hand.
This happened because of a deep
laceration across the fingers.
Slight remodeling indicates this
occurred about five weeks ago.
I agree. So...
I was thinking that whoever
stabbed Mia back then came back
to finish the job.
Uh, whoa. Um, aren't you
destroying the evidence
by scraping off
the remodeling?
Not in this case.
The woven aspects
have not yet hardened
into cortical bone.
By removing the new growth,
we should be able
to get a mold
of the initial wound.
Wow. How cool is that?
Very.
Have Dr. Hodgins swab, then make
a Mikrosil of the injury
so we can determine what blade was used.
You got it.
And please use
the Twitter to tell my followers
about the incomplete remodeling
I removed.
They'll be fascinated.
Yes.
Hey, Caroline. So according
to Mia's medical report,
she got 28 stitches on four
fingers about a month ago.
Did she happen to tell
the doctor the name of
the sick soul who stabbed her?
She said that she cut it
on a piece of glass,
but Bones says it definitely
was a knife wound.
You think the boyfriend
took a blade to her?
Well, look at this.
Look where the clinic was
where she got stitched up.
The same neighborhood
where Keith and Marcellus live.
Keith has an assault charge
for using a knife.
I was sort of hoping
it was the boyfriend.
You know, that neighborhood
has been through enough
for us to jump to conclusions.
We're just going with our leads.
That's all we can do.
You're a good man, Seeley Booth.
You sure you don't want to dump
that beautiful doctor you've got
and run away with me?
Tell you what, just give me
a day to think about it, huh?
I'm gonna have
to bring Keith in.
I understand.
Based on the injury profile
on the victim's fingers, you
should be able to reconstruct
what the knife in question
looked like.
Well, let's not endow me
with superpowers.
The puncture wound
to the fifth phalange
marks the end
of the blade.
And the laceration stops
halfway through the bone
on the
index finger.
A distance
of 6.35 centimeters.
Kerf marks show that
the blade was serrated.
Right. Adding that now.
Also, from the Mikrosil, we
know the width of the blade
was four millimeters thick.
No.
From the striae, it appears that
the killer twisted the blade,
so it makes it seem like it's
wider than it actually is.
Mm.
Talk about sadistic.
Maybe.
But an injury like
this could happen
if the victim tried to
grab hold of the blade.
Wow. You really know
your sharp force trauma.
I got to tweet
about this
for Dr. B.
Oh, uh...
Listen,
you're getting
Brennan crazy.
She's more competitive
than other people,
so she's just gonna want
to have more Twitter followers
than everyone else.
What's wrong with that?
It's a waste
of her time, it's a distraction,
and it's contributing to the end
of our civilization.
Twitter is a fact of life, Angela.
Yes,
and life is better
when Brennan tweets
about the most promiscuous tribe
in Timbuktu.
Who else
would do that?
Did I just get slapped down?
Well, I use mind control.
I don't believe in violence.
Should we finish with this
knife? So, Hodgins found trace
of a synthetic
lubricant
in the wound.
Lubricants are used
on switchblades and other folding knives.
Right.
Okay. So if we change the
handle to a folding knife...
we have our weapon.
So, we tested your knife,
Keith.
We found blood in the liner.
Okay, I cut myself.
- So what?
- It's not your blood type.
It's B positive,
like Mia Ferrara's.
Yeah, okay. Whatever.
It's hers,
but it's not what you think.
You know what I
think? I think Mia
came around
to tutor Marcellus, right?
You didn't want her there,
so you pulled out the knife...
No. No, look,
check my rap sheet.
Look, I haven't been arrested
in three years. And I've been
good-- I mean real good--
since me and Marcellus
has been on our own.
But this is your knife, isn't it?
Look, yeah. But it's not
what you think.
I didn't cut her.
You're saying
your brother did?
Cellus? No way.
Look, that crazy bi...
That crazy lady cut herself.
She grabbed
the knife
off the table and sliced herself.
You think
any jury in the world
would believe that, fool?
It's the truth.
Look, she started coming around,
like, a month ago
because Cellus had missed
a couple of days of school.
Look, I work all day,
so that was
the first time
I heard of it.
He started
skipping school
because he wanted to earn, too.
Hated that I had
to do everything.
But like I told him,
that's what big brothers do.
And I wasn't gonna be
like our father.
You didn't know he had a job?
No.
Look, when Miss Ferrara came,
when she showed up,
that's when he came clean.
But then that's
when she thought
I forced him to skip school.
That's when she grabbed
the knife off the table
by the blade,
and she was bleeding
all over the place,
I mean, saying
that-that Marcellus was smart
and if I... if I didn't let him
go back to school
that she was gonna tell
everybody that I attacked her.
So I'm sorry,
but she was a crazy bitch.
So she cut
herself to force you
to keep Marcellus in school?
That's it.
Look, look,
look, look.
I guess it worked.
'Cause Cellus hasn't missed
a day after that.
Let's say we believe you
for a second.
Where were you the day
that Mia died?
Look, I can't tell you that.
Look...
But, look,
as-as God is my witness,
I didn't hurt that woman.
You have got to tell the
other guy-- Agent Booth--
my brother didn't do
anything, man, I swear.
Well, we want to believe him,
but he's hiding something,
Marcellus.
It's not what you think, all right?
Keith knew what Miss Ferrara
was doing for me.
And after that night he
made sure I had a good
breakfast every morning.
Made-made sure my homework
was done and everything.
All right, I need
more, Marcellus.
You know I need more.
The reason Keith
can't tell you...
He's protecting me.
What did you do?
Nothing.
It's just that Keith's
already got two strikes
and the third strike and he
goes away for a long time.
And you go into foster care.
Keith promised that he'd
never let that happen.
Well, I'm sorry to tell you
that it probably will
unless you can
tell us where Keith was
when Miss Ferrara was killed.
He was...
He was at the grocery
store getting some food.
He didn't get paid
for a couple of days
and I had a test coming up, so
he didn't want me to be hungry.
He robbed the place.
Not for, like,
cash or anything.
Just took a few things.
Eggs, milk, stuff like that.
He put it under his
shirt and he ran.
Keith's gonna be so pissed
if he find out that I talked.
Hey.
It's all right, okay?
We're not gonna press charges
against your brother.
You're not?
No charges were ever filed.
And I'm talking to you
without a guardian present,
which means this conversation
never even happened.
Thank you.
Seems the brother
didn't do it.
And the epithelial cells
from the locker were a dead end.
They're from the victim.
Any luck in here?
No luck, but skill and acumen
have proven very fruitful.
Even better.
We are focusing on
postmortem fractures
to the spinous
processes
of the third and fourth
lumbar vertebrae
and blunt force trauma
to the patellas.
The fractures to the
patellas are consistent
with a hard object striking
against the bone.
Question is
why kneecap someone
who's already dead?
And you're certain
the damage to the knees
and spine didn't result
from transporting the body?
These were
intentional strikes.
But why damage
only the knees and back?
It's just random.
No, no, it's
not random
at all. The knees and the spine
are both fulcrums.
Which means?
Perfect.
This makes
perfect sense.
Just once,
I'd like her to tell us
the big discovery
before she runs out.
Because Cam found
livor mortis on the soles
of the victim's feet,
we know the body was stored
in the locker
for at least six hours.
Which means by the time
the killer moved the body,
rigor mortis
would've set in.
So the body was stiff.
That would make it
difficult to move.
Must have been why
the killer broke the bones.
To bend the body.
But typically, you only
have to bend the
spine to fit a body
into the trunk of a car.
Well, then why
did the killer make minced
meat out of the victim's knees?
Angela, bend the victim's
knees 90 degrees.
Okay, now
do the same
for the spine, pivoting
the torso 90 degrees.
Oh, so the body was put
in a seated position?
I've heard of
serial killers like Ed Gein
posing their victims,
making them seem like they're still alive.
Or...
the killer seated the victim
for practical purposes,
because he didn't have
a big enough trunk for the body.
Wait, so the killer put
the victim in the
passenger seat next to him?
Okay, that's really creepy.
So we're looking
for someone with a car
that has seats and no trunk?
Hey,
I found vinyl particulates
that came from an eraser.
Not the kind
from the end of a pencil--
this is a high-end eraser...
Useful if you're
changing answers.
Wasn't there standardized
testing for ninth graders
the day that Mia was killed?
Yes, and
according to Booth,
the same UTF teacher
who administered the test
drives a small,
Eco-friendly car.
These are the tests
your students took
the day Mia was murdered.
Answers were erased
and changed--
all of them.
Changed in a way that makes
you look like an
exemplary teacher.
I  am a good teacher.
And the students are allowed
to go back over their work,
so if there are any erasures...
The marks are from
your eraser. We found
your epithelial cells
in the particulates from the eraser.
And when
you strangled Mia, those
shavings from the erasers
were transferred onto her.
Mia caught you cheating,
didn't she?
She was
dedicated to her
students, and all
you did was think
about yourself.
If she turned you in,
she would have
ruined your career.
Come on,
some bits of eraser
are not enough
to prove somebody of murder.
Actually, it is.
There's more.
To position Mia's body
in your car, you used
your steering wheel
lock to break
her bones and acetone
to clean up, but...
see, acetone doesn't mask blood.
Lucky for us, he's not
a science teacher.
Lucky for us.
You don't understand...
No, I don't.
I don't understand, and neither
will the prosecutor, so
if you help us out...
I had an interview lined up.
At the Department of Education.
Mia knew that.
It was a good position.
So you were falsifying the results
to make yourself
more attractive.
I didn't want
to fight with her.
I tried to get
the tests back from her,
but she just kept
swatting me away.
So you killed her.
I just wanted my tests.
But then she started
to scream, and...
I guess I must've...
I don't know.
Strangled her to shut her up.
I thought she would understand.
I mean, who really
wants to teach
in a school like that, right?
What are the odds
that any of them are ever
gonna amount to anything?
You boys both eat up.
I don't want y'all
robbing some store
because your belly's got
a case of the grumbles.
You know what, I appreciate
it, Miss Julian.
Cellus,
where's your
manners?
Thank you, Miss Julian.
Don't talk
with your mouth full.
I heard from the UTF
and they won't be able
to send any replacements
until next year.
Well, Cellus is still
gonna study hard,
right, Cellus?
I mean, that crazy...
...lady...
won't have died
for nothing.
I'm gonna do right by her.
And me, Cher.
Because I'm gonna
be your new tutor.
And you do not want
to get a "B" on my watch.
Understand?
Yes, Miss Julian.
What are you
laughing about?
You're gonna get your GED.
And if you don't,
I'll find some way
to put your scrawny behind in jail.
Well, look, I got
a job.
Oh, boo hoo.
Poor baby's gonna get tired.
You two aren't gonna make me
waste my time, are you?
No, ma'am.
Okay. You two want
anything else to eat?
No, ma'am. Mm-mm.
Oh, of course you do. Miss?
Yes?
Bring these young men some pie.
Oh, certainly.
Thank you.
Can't believe
they gave Christine
homework already.
Well, it's just
tracing letters
to help develop her
small motor skills.
Well, I should be thankful.
It's a good
pre-school.
Right? Plus...
the teachers are alive.
And Christine enjoys
the work. Without challenges,
life becomes dull.
Guess that's
why living
with you is never dull.
You saying
I'm a challenge?
Well, you're definitely not easy.
Oh, another tweet.
You don't have to announce
every time you got one.
I thought Jessica was doing that for you.
No, she felt
I'd learned enough to take
over myself. My publisher
is very pleased. Look-
I have almost
3,000 followers.
Well, look at you.
You're tweeting about, uh,
Caroline's teaching program?
Yes. And some people
have even donated.
The sociological
and anthropological effects
of social media can be quite positive.
That's great, Bones.
I even learned
to use emoticons.
Emoticons? No, no, you're
not, uh, emoticon material
type of woman.
Apparently I am.
Smiley face, wink, wink.
Okay,
smiley face, wink, wink--
it's dinner time. Let's go.
You cooked?
Course I cooked.
What do you think I been
doing here the whole time?
I hadn't really noticed.
Why haven't you noticed?
Because you been stuck
in that whole tweety bird
kind of thing here.
Come on.
I don't think
you deserve this.
Well, it smells good.
Course it's good stuff.
Look at this-- I made
the homemade sauce,
I got salad,
fresh bread.
Candles.
Pretty romantic, Booth.
Yes, it's
amazing what you see when you
step out of the virtual world.
What are you doing?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
What? I think my followers
will appreciate this.
Really?
#BestHusbandEver.
That's not too bad. Yeah,
that's good. Okay, you can
do that. How about a
picture of me serving you?
No, I don't think so.
Right.
Wine.
Yes. Wine, huh?
Tell you what-- why don't
you take a selfie of us
drinking the wine and
you can put #BottomsUp.
I don't think that's a good idea.
Okay, hashtag...
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org